In this lecture, we take a look at the eye test list, the interface.
So what is the it's less the interface.
It's an interface we can use to trigger code when a particular event takes place.
For example, I may want my coat to do something if it comes across a failure.
For example, take a screenshot.
The interface has a number of available methods and I provide an example of some of these methods on
the next slide.
We can improvise code for each.
Some or none of these methods, depending on our requirements.
So here is an example of some of the methods and a descriptive meaning.
So there is a method called on test test success.
And this method is called on any test that is successful.
There's a method called on test failure and this method is called an any test has failed and there's
a method name on test script and this method is called on.
Any test has been skipped.
So this is an example of process flow of how it works.
So a test would be executed.
And in this case, I'm using a class called lock in test.
Selenium web driver processes the test.
A test failure occurs.
On Test failure methods event is triggered.
So the on test failure method is triggered from the interface code.
And then log in tests.
Java is connected to the test list the class.
So basically on step free when a test failure occurs, it triggers the method on test failure, and
then we can have code within that method to do something like take a screenshot.
So here is an example of a class that implements on a test list the interface.
So this class implements its listener.
And I have provided a method.
Called On's has failure and this is triggered when a test failure occurs.
In this case, it just prints a message to console.
Connect in a test class to use a class that implements the only test listener interface.
So to set our test class is to use the test list.
The class is easy.
We write our test class the exact same way as we usually do.
However, we need to add a line of code near the top to connect it.
So all we need to write within our test class is at listeners and then provide the name of the class
that implements the interface.
So to give a quick summary.
To use the artist list the interface, we must create a class that implements the test list.
The interface.
We then must have methods and a code to handle the events of interest.
For example, on test failure.
We then need to connect our test class to use the eye test list in the class using the ACT listener's
annotation.
Now, if our test fails, it will trigger the code within the on test failure method from within each
test list.
The class.
Let's see an example of this.
So in this lesson, I am going to be creating two classes.
One class will contain the test code and the other class will contain the code that implements the test
list, the interface, and what code is to trigger when an event occurs.
So the first class, I'm going to simply copy the class from lecture 15 and paste it.
Calling this new one l 17 as we're now in Lecture 17 and I'm going to give it a name of test class like
so and then click okay.
So this simply contains a very simple test where I am failing this particular method using assert or
fail, and this one simply enters a password into the login screen on the store website.
And then going to right click the package and select new class.
And I'm going to call this new class L 17 underscore.
I test listener like so.
And then click finish.
This class would then automatically open.
And so what I need to do next is.
Right.
Implements.
I test.
Listener like so.
After doing that.
And if I hover over that word, you'll see I'm given an option to import it from Test and G.
And that import would then show.
So what I need to now do is use methods that belong to the ETF listener interface, and I can see a
list of methods by clicking on that ISIS listener and then pressing free on my keyboard.
And that will show a list of all the available methods that belong to this interface.
For example, on test starts, on test success and on test failure.
So I'm going to be using the on test failure method.
So I am going to control C and copy that.
And then I am going to paste it within the class like so, but I'm going to remove the photos and instead
use public.
So that is the home test failure method that's ready to use.
And you can see it as a parameter here called result and I'll demonstrate how we can use this parameter
later in the course.
But for now, all I want to do is use system.
Dot out dot prints.
L.
N.
And also want to write here is a simple message saying test has failed.
And this message is from the Why Test listener interface.
A semi-colon at the end.
And now I'm going to simply save this class.
So I'm now going to close that for now.
And I am going to open up the test class.
So here is a method that I'm to into use in a search or fail.
So what I want to do is connect this test class to use the test list the class and the test list in
the class that implements the test list, the interface.
So at the top of the class.
So after the imports, I'm going to add a line using the at.
Listeners.
And in brackets.
And inside these brackets, I'm going to provide the package name.
So section 11 and then the dot.
And then the name of the items list in the class.
And at the end of that, I'm going to write doc class.
And you will see it as an error on the listeners.
And if I hover over it, I'm given the option to import it from Test n g annotations.
And that terror now goes away.
So what I've done here is linked this class.
To.
This particular class here.
And this class here implements the it's this the interface and I've written a method using the on test
failure method which belongs to the test is the interface to trigger this code upon a test failure.
So if I go back to this class now and save it.
And try running this test.
Let's see what happens.
And if I go back to Eclipse.
And scroll up.
You'll see that the code error failure message has been outputted.
But also look what else has been placed here.
Test has failed and this message is from the test this the interface.
So what that has done has proven that when a failure has occurred, this class connects to this class.
And this class implements the test list, the interface where I have used the on test failure method.
And this method gets triggered.
When a test failure occurs.
And that's why this message has been outputted here.
So if I go back to the eye test list the interface by clicking it and then pressing free again.
You'll see that is also on test success.
So if I was to copy this.
And paste this into the it says listener class.
Again change in default to public.
And if I write another message here say in system dots out stock prints out in.
Test has passed from eye test less than art interface.
And saving this.
Now, if I go back to my test class.
This one here passes.
So there's no failure here.
So now I expect.
This method to trigger the onset failure method because it fails.
But I expect this test to trigger the onto test success method because it passes.
So I expect both of these messages to occur in the console.
So let me try it.
And if I go back to Eclipse.
And if I scroll up.
You'll see.
Both messages have appeared.
So this is how we can handle events that occur when we execute our tests.
And we can control what happens by using the oil test list interface.
To do something when a particular event occurs.
So when we come to create in our frameworks, I use on his failure to execute the capture in of a screenshot.
Because I want to record a screenshots of my test when a failure occurs, so I'll have evidence of where
it failed.
So I understand this can be quite confusing, but you'll become more familiar with this as we progress
through the course.
But I hope at least now you have a basic understanding of how we can use the ETF list the interface
to do things when particular events occur during our tests.
Thank you for watching.